nodesetboot(8) -- Check or set next boot device for noderange
====================================================

## SYNOPSIS

`nodesetboot <noderange>`  
`nodesetboot [options] <noderange> [default|cd|network|setup|hd|usb|floppy]`

## DESCRIPTION

Requests that the next boot occur from the specified device.  Unless otherwise
specified, this is a one time boot option, and does not change the normal boot
behavior of the system.  This is useful for taking a system that normally boots
to the hard drive and startking a network install, or to go into the firmware
setup menu without having to hit a keystroke at the correct time on the console.

Generally, it's a bit more convenient and direct to use the nodeboot(8) command,
which will follow up the boot device with an immediate power directive to take
effect.  The `nodesetboot` command is still useful, particularly if you want
to use `nodesetboot <noderange> setup` and then initiate a reboot from within
the operating system with ssh or similar rather than using the remote hardware
control.

## OPTIONS

* `-b`, `--bios`:
  For a system that supports both BIOS and UEFI style boot, request BIOS style
  boot if supported (some platforms will UEFI boot with this flag anyway).

* `-p`, `--persist`:
  For a system that supports it, mark the boot override to persist rather than
  be a one time change.  Many systems do not support this functionality.

* `-u`, `--uefi`:
  This flag does nothing, it is for command compatibility with xCAT's rsetboot

* `default`:
  Request a normal default boot with no particular device override

* `cd`:
  Request boot from media.  Note that this can include physical CD,
  remote media mounted as CD/DVD, and detachable hard disks drives such as usb
  key devices.
  
* `floppy`:
  Request boot from floppy.  Generally speaking firmware uses this to mean a USB
  flash drive or similar (whether virtual or physical).

* `usb`:
  Request boot from usb.  Generally speaking firmware uses this to mean a USB
  flash drive or similar (whether virtual or physical).

* `network`:
  Request boot to network
  
* `setup`:
  Request to enter the firmware configuration menu (e.g. F1 setup) on next boot.

* `hd`:
  Boot straight to hard disk drive

## EXAMPLES

* Set next boot to setup for four nodes:
  `# nodesetboot n1-n4 setup`  
  `n1: setup`  
  `n3: setup`  
  `n2: setup`  
  `n4: setup`  

* Check boot override settings on four nodes:
  `# nodesetboot n1-n4`  
  `n1: setup`  
  `n2: setup`  
  `n3: setup`  
  `n4: setup`  
  
## SEE ALSO

nodeboot(8)
